---
layout: post
title: Solaris 7 binary release
joomla_id: 3617
joomla_url: "-sp-1565624490"
date: 2001-03-12 21:54:22.000000000 +01:00
author: Andras
excerpt: A binary release for Solaris 7 is now available. Contributed by Ulrich Kaage
  (<A href="mailto:kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de">kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de</A>).
category: Software
---
A binary release for Solaris 7 is now available. Contributed by Ulrich Kaage (<A href="mailto:kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de">kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de</A>). Hi OMNeT++ users,<BR>I would like to announce a precompiled package of OMNeT++ for SUN<BR>SPARC workstations (sun4u and sun4m) running Solaris 7.<BR>The package is available from<BR><A href="http://whale.hit.bme.hu/omnetpp/release/omnetpp-2.0.1-sol-bin.tgz">http://whale.hit.bme.hu/omnetpp/release/omnetpp-2.0.1-sol-bin.tgz</A><BR>This is a binary release based on OMNeT++ Version 2.0.1 with all<BR>sources included. It comes with its own TCL/TK libraries and include<BR>files. This distribution uses static libraries and the OMNeT++ kernel<BR>is compiled with debugging information.<BR>After package installation with the pkgadd tool and setting up two<BR>environment variables you can start using OMNeT++ right out of the<BR>box.<BR>The only prerequisite is that you have gcc version 2.95.2 installed on<BR>the target system because the library libstdc++.so.2.10.0 is needed. A<BR>binary package of gcc is available from<BR><A href="http://www.sunfreeware.com/programlistsparc7.html#gcc2952">http://www.sunfreeware.com/programlistsparc7.html#gcc2952</A><BR>Here is a short installation description on how to install the binary<BR>OMNeT++ package in /opt/omnetpp:<BR>1. Unpack the archive in a temporary directory, e.g. /tmp<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; &#36; gzip -cd &lt; omnetpp-2.0.1-sol-bin.tgz | (cd /tmp; tar -xf -)<BR>2. Become root and start the pkgadd utility:<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; # pkgadd -d /tmp<BR>3. pkgadd now asks you which package to install. Select the number of<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; the line containing omnetpp (normally number 1).<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; E.g.<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; # pkgadd -d /tmp&nbsp; <BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; The following packages are available:<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1&nbsp; omnetpp&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; OMNeT++ Discrete Event Simulation System<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (sparc) 2.0.1<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; Select package(s) you wish to process (or 'all' to process<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; all packages). (default: all) [?,??,q]: 1<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; <BR>4. When being asked for the path to the package base directory, enter /opt:<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; Enter path to package base directory [?,q] /opt<BR>5. After installation has finished you can remove the temporary<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; directory:<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; # rm -rf /tmp/omnetpp<BR>6. Read /opt/omnetpp/README.Solaris-Binary for instructions on how to<BR>&nbsp;&nbsp; set up your environment for using OMNeT++.<BR>Cheers, Uli<BR>-- <BR>Dipl.-Ing. U.Kaage&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tel. ++49/(0)721/608-6273<BR>Institut fuer Nachrichtentechnik&nbsp;&nbsp; Fax. ++49/(0)721/608-6071<BR>Universitaet Karlsruhe (TH)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <A href="mailto:kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de">kaage@int.uni-karlsruhe.de</A><BR>76128 Karlsruhe, Germany<BR>Home Page und PGP-Key: <A href="http://www-int.etec.uni-karlsruhe.de/~kaage/">http://www-int.etec.uni-karlsruhe.de/~kaage/</A>
