---
layout: post
title: OMNeT++ 2.0 final released!
joomla_id: 3620
joomla_url: "-sp-1093202672"
date: 2001-02-15 21:45:17.000000000 +01:00
author: Andras
excerpt: OMNeT++ 2.0 final released. see the <A href="/download/old">download</A>
  section.
category: Software
---
OMNeT++ 2.0 final released. see the <A href="/download/old">download</A> section. <FONT face="courier new, courier, mono">In the OMNeT++ 2.0 final version (February 2001)<BR>------------------------------------------------<BR>There are a number of enhancements mainly on the GUI parts, GNED and Tkenv,<BR>but the simulation API remains fully compatible. Bugs that were reported<BR>since the 2.0b5 release have largely been fixed. All those who cared to<BR>report bugs and suggested features -- thanks!<BR>In cQueue, a number of methods were made virtual to enable customizing the<BR>class (e.g. adding statistics for maintaining average queue length, etc.).<BR>Some bugfixes on cQueue, cArray and cBag. I also added the OMNETPP_VERSION<BR>symbol to the sim header files (currently #defined as 0x0200).<BR>Tkenv was enhanced quite a bit. Now you can now open module output windows for<BR>all modules (not only for simple modules), and the window will accumulate<BR>ev&lt;&lt; output from that module and all submodules. (This feature is especially<BR>useful for tracing dynamically created modules). Now you can search for text<BR>in all module windows (^F Find, F3/^N Find next). Hotkeys were assigned to the<BR>run commands too (F4 Step, F5 Run, F6 Fast, F7 Express, F8 Stop), and the<BR>behaviour of the "step within module" command (^F4) was refined. I added a<BR>Performance status bar (it displays events/sec, simulated sec/sec,<BR>events/simulated sec readings). Another toolbar shows (among others) the number<BR>of message objects currently in existence -- this feature may help you discover<BR>the most common kind of memory leaks: forgetting to delete messages.<BR>Display string handling was improved: modules in a module vector may now be<BR>positioned individually, and submodule display strings may use the parent<BR>module's parameters, too. See src/tkenv/ChangeLog for details.<BR>The most important addition to GNED is its new, experimental XML support (needs<BR>the TclXML-1.2 package). XML will play a much more significant role in future<BR>releases of OMNeT++, as a universal data exchange format. Many smaller<BR>enhancements: GNED now accepts NED file names as command line arguments;<BR>.gnedrc was introduced; more &amp; better Properties dialogs (Channel, Connection,<BR>Module, etc. Properties); GNED is more careful now when you want to exit the<BR>program; the File menu now has a Save all item. Plus a number of other fixes<BR>to improve the robustness and reliability of the code.<BR>A short section was added to the manual about parallel simulation in general. </FONT>
