---
layout: post
title: FIELDBUS model released
joomla_id: 3515
joomla_url: "-sp-900737823"
date: 2005-10-02 19:47:32.000000000 +02:00
author: Administrator
excerpt: "<P>The first release of a <STRONG>control networks simulation framework</STRONG>
  for OMNeT++ is out now. The main goal of <STRONG>FIELDBUS</STRONG>&nbsp;is the performance
  analysis and evaluation of communication protocols and network configurations for
  control networks. Read on for more information.</P>\r<P><STRONG>Developers needed!</STRONG>
  The project is hosted at <A href=\"http://developer.berlios.de/projects/fieldbus\"><FONT
  color=#800000>http://developer.berlios.de/projects/fieldbus</FONT></A>. Please contact
  me if you're interested: <A href=\"mailto:dragan.isakovic@freenet.de\">dragan.isakovic@freenet.de</A>.</P>\r<P>Regards,
  Dragan.</P>"
category: Software
---
<P>The first release of a <STRONG>control networks simulation framework</STRONG> for OMNeT++ is out now. The main goal of <STRONG>FIELDBUS</STRONG>&nbsp;is the performance analysis and evaluation of communication protocols and network configurations for control networks. Read on for more information.</P><P><STRONG>Developers needed!</STRONG> The project is hosted at <A href="http://developer.berlios.de/projects/fieldbus"><FONT color=#800000>http://developer.berlios.de/projects/fieldbus</FONT></A>. Please contact me if you're interested: <A href="mailto:dragan.isakovic@freenet.de">dragan.isakovic@freenet.de</A>.</P><P>Regards, Dragan.</P><P>FIELDBUS is the result of my diploma thesis at&nbsp;University Dortmund in Germany. The goal was to create a reuseable control networks simulation software and to evaluate the properties of OMNeT++.</P><P>FIELDBUS is released under the General Public License v2.&nbsp;The model&nbsp;is organized similarly to the INET Framework, and it is currently in alpha status. Three control network systems are available now: Ethernet, ControlNet and DeviceNet. A fourth will be integrated soon: LonTalk.</P><P>The model framework was developed under GNU/Linux, but with slight modifications it is also runnable under Windows and MacOS X. Please report me your porting success!</P><P>The project is hosted on berlios.de. The Berlios platform is a German initiative providing support for different interest groups in the area of Open Source Software (OSS). Its functions are very similar to those of sourceforge.net and it's free.</P><P>Developers needed! Are you interested in developing this project? You're welcome! Contact me under <A href="mailto:dragan.isakovic@freenet.de">dragan.isakovic@freenet.de</A>. I'm searching for people who are challenged by developing an open source project.</P><P>Regards<BR>Dragan</P>
