---
layout: post
title: INET 2.1 released
joomla_id: 3702
joomla_url: inet21release
date: 2013-02-04 00:00:00.000000000 +01:00
author: Andras
excerpt: <div><div>We are happy to announce the INET Framework 2.1 release. The INET
  Framework is an open-source communication networks simulation package for the OMNeT++
  simulation environment. It contains models for several wired and wireless networking
  protocols, including UDP, TCP, SCTP, IP, IPv6, Ethernet, PPP, 802.11, MPLS, OSPF,
  and many others. &nbsp;This new version is compatible with the the 2.0 version and
  contains only bugfixes and some additional components.</div><div><br /></div><div>Visit
  the INET Framework website and&nbsp;<a class="wikilink" href="https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases"
  mce_href="https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases">download it now</a>.
  Read on for details.</div></div><div>
category: Software
---
<div><div>We are happy to announce the INET Framework 2.1 release. The INET Framework is an open-source communication networks simulation package for the OMNeT++ simulation environment. It contains models for several wired and wireless networking protocols, including UDP, TCP, SCTP, IP, IPv6, Ethernet, PPP, 802.11, MPLS, OSPF, and many others. &nbsp;This new version is compatible with the the 2.0 version and contains only bugfixes and some additional components.</div><div><br /></div><div>Visit the INET Framework website and&nbsp;<a class="wikilink" href="https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases" mce_href="https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases">download it now</a>. Read on for details.</div></div><div></div><div><br /></div><div><p>NEW:</p><ul><li>Added a new module to model an "internet cloud". The component can be configured to model packet delay, datarate and drop probability between each input-output interface pair. The parameter matrix is provided as an XML configuration file. See the README file in src/nodes/internetcloud for further details.</li><li>New SimpleVoIPReceiver/Sender applications that gather MOS (Mean Opinion Score) for measuring voice quality.</li><li>Added HNA support to the Batman protocol (MANET)</li></ul><p class="vspace" mce_=""><br /></p><p>CHANGED:</p><p class="vspace"><br /></p><p>Applications:</p><ul><li>PingApp: Shows the configured destination address at the end of the simulation.</li><li>TCPBasicClientApp: bugfix #611: simulation generated an ASSERT if numRequestsPerSession parameter value larger than 1.</li><li>TcpApp: socket state is now shown on the GUI (in Echo, Sink and Session apps.)</li><li>VoipTool: was renamed to VoIPStream (The actual module names are VoIPStreamSender/Receiver.)<br /><br /></li></ul><p>Ethernet:</p><ul><li>Transmission channel's 'disabled' parameter is now correctly handled in EtherMacBase.</li></ul><p class="vspace"><br /></p><p>Ieee80211Mac:</p><ul><li>Better parameter processing in MAC: error is thrown if an undefined value is specified for the opmode or autoBitrate parameters.</li><li>Added the Ieee80211Descriptor class to assign modulation speed and type for the different opModes.</li><li>Bugfix: Default bitrate for opMode 'p' was incorrectly set.</li></ul><p class="vspace"><br /></p><p>BGP:</p><ul><li>Minor optimizations</li><li>Bugfix: The text in specification "sets the ConnectRetryTimer to zero" means: restart this timer. The _connectRetryTime member now stores the timeout value.</li></ul><p class="vspace" mce_=""><br /></p><p>Manetrouting:</p><ul><li>updated documentation</li><li>replaced Uint128 with ManetNetworkAddress</li><li>removed:<ul><li>unused ManetTimer and BatmanTimer class</li><li>unused static variables</li><li>isIpLocalAddress(), uses isLocalAddress()</li><li>convertAddressToString()</li><li>getXPos(), getYPos() functions, you should use getPosition() instead.</li></ul></li><li>redesigned coordinate and speed storage and access. replaced double x,y with a Coord. getDirection() now returns the speed vector (as a Coord)</li><li>getters returns UNSPECIFIED_ADDRESS if addrType==UNDEFINED</li><li>merged sendToIp() code into a common base function sendToIpOnIface()</li></ul><p class="vspace"><br /></p><p>AODV:</p><ul><li>AODV's hand-written descriptors were replaced with generated ones.</li><li>aodv_msg_struct.h: added getter methods expected by the generated descriptors removed hand-written aodv_msg_struct_descriptor.cc</li></ul><p class="vspace" mce_=""><br /></p><p>Batman:</p><ul><li>Updated and expanded documentation</li><li>Updated the code to match the latest available "batmand" version.</li><li>Numerous optimizations</li><li>Fixed several memory leaks</li><li>Fixed routing table corruption and possible crash when multiple radios were used in a single host</li><li>Fixed decapsulation of incoming packets. Now it checks for the type of decapsulated packet.</li><li>Fix for a problem when aggregated batman packets were dropped erronously.</li><li>Added HNA support. Nodes can advertise external networks, so traffic towards those networks can be routed correctly. Use the announcedNetworks parameter to specify multiple connected external networks.</li><li>Added SourceModifier script to help the conversion from the original batmand code.<ul><li>fixes spaces, tabs and empty lines</li><li>replaces some c-style structs to c++-style classes</li><li>replaces some batmand specified list manipulators with c++ code</li><li>replaces malloc/free with new/delete</li><li>removes prof_start()/prof_stop() calls</li></ul></li></ul><p class="vspace" mce_=""><br /></p><p>Examples:</p><ul><li>Added a new simulation with wired and wireless hosts exchanging UDP data via an AccessPoint. It shows how to use the IPv4NetworkConfigurator to mix wired and wireless networks.</li><li>Fixes for BGP examples.</li><li>New example to demonstrate HNA support in Batman.</li><li>Hostautoconf examample moved to the adhoc folder.</li></ul><p class="vspace"><br /></p><p>Other changes:</p><ul><li>Uint128 class was removed. Use ManetNetworkAddress class instead.</li><li>Visual changes in StandardHost/NodeBase: utility module icons are now smaller and wlan[]/PingApp[] modules are displayed in a row.</li><li>NodeBase: it is possible to use mobility module even if numRadios = 0</li><li>Added check for detecting too small netmask parameter value in HostAutoConfigurator</li><li>PacketDump: TCP header option fix (dumped only in verbose mode.)</li><li>Bugfix #620. The module pointer returned by a ModuleAccess class is now cached only if get() was used. For get(module) no caching is done.</li><li>MACAddress: made the constructor explicit so we will not see unexpected implicit conversions in future</li><li>IPv6Address: removed Uint128 related functions and added an additional constructMask() method</li><li>headerserializers: compile fix for Visual C++ 10.0 and later</li><li>Pcap now records on ALL interfaces by default (including external IFs). Added Enter_Method for better error reporting if a packet cannot be serialized. Also added an icon for PcapRecorder.</li><li>Several TCP related fixes.</li></ul><p class="vspace"><br /></p><p>You can download INET-2.1.0&nbsp;<a class="wikilink" href="https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases" mce_href="https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases">here</a>.</p></div>
